W-14574178: Clarifying property placeholders static replacement. (#2590)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/mule-app-properties-to-configure.adoc

Consider the following example, which contains a DataWeave script:

[source, xml]
----
<ee:transform>
  <ee:message>
    <ee:set-payload>
      <![CDATA[
        %dw 2.0
        output application/json
        ---
        {
          "message": "${message}",
        }
      ]]>
    </ee:set-payload>
  </ee:message>
</ee:transform>
----

The contents of the `.properties` file:

----
message=I love $
----

After property replacements take place, the application looks like this:

[source, xml]
----
<ee:transform>
  <ee:message>
    <ee:set-payload>
      <![CDATA[
        %dw 2.0
        output application/json
        ---
        {
          "message": "I love $",
        }
      ]]>
    </ee:set-payload>
  </ee:message>
</ee:transform>
----

The output is an invalid DataWeave script because the dollar sign ($) has a special meaning and needs to be escaped. See xref:dataweave::dataweave-types.adoc#escape-chars-string[Dataweave - Escaping Special Characters]. Remember the property placeholders are replaced before the DataWeave script is parsed.

> In order to fix that, one option is to escape the value in the properties file, like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To solve conflicts, you can escape the value in the properties file:
```

----
message=I love \$
----

> Or use DataWeave's xref:dataweave::dw-mule-functions-p[p function] instead of a property placeholder:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Or use DataWeave xref:dataweave::dw-mule-functions-p[p function] instead of a property placeholder:
```

Reviewer 2: Our style guide mentions "Do not make a product name possessive, regardless of who owns the product name".
See "[possessive](https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/MuleSoft+CX+Writing+Style+Reference)".

> Another option would be to use DataWeave's xref:dataweave::dw-mule-functions-p[p function] instead of a property placeholder:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or use DataWeave's xref:dataweave::dw-mule-functions-p[p function] instead of a property placeholder:
```

[source, xml]
----
<ee:transform>
  <ee:message>
    <ee:set-payload>
      <![CDATA[
        %dw 2.0
        output application/json
        ---
        {
          "message": Mule::p("message"),
        }
      ]]>
    </ee:set-payload>
  </ee:message>
</ee:transform>
----

> In that case, the property is evaluated when the script is executed. The script remains syntactically valid at the moment of parsing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The property is evaluated when the script is executed and the script remains syntactically valid at the moment of parsing.
```

</http:request-config>
----

> When the application is deployed, the property values will be computed from the different possible sources and will statically replace the placeholders as if they have been written directly in the source code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the application is deployed, the property values are computed from the different possible sources and statically replace the placeholders as if they were written directly in the source code.
```

> Following the previous example, it would be equivalent to have written it like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is another example on how to configure your Global HTTP Request configuration.
```

Author: Mmm... this is not quite what I wanted to say. I want to show how the config would look like after property placeholder replacements while emphasizing the fact that it would be no different from having hard-coded the values directly in the source code (without using the placeholders at all).

[source, xml]
----
<http:request-config
  name="HTTP_Request_config"
  doc:name="HTTP Request
  configuration" doc:id="7120494c-0540-4ad1-a118-f5b6db3f1456"
  basePath="/service" >
		<http:request-connection
      host="my-api.cloudhub.io"
      port="10000" />
</http:request-config>
----

> There is no special escaping based on the context, so the resulting values need to be valid in the context from which they are referenced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is no escaping special characters based on the context. The resulting values need to be valid in the context from which they are referenced.
```

> Consider, for example, the following scenario which contains a Dataweave script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider the following example, which contains a DataWeave script:
```

[source, xml]
----
<ee:transform>
  <ee:message>
    <ee:set-payload>
      <![CDATA[
        %dw 2.0
        output application/json
        ---
        {
          "message": "${message}",
        }
      ]]>
    </ee:set-payload>
  </ee:message>
</ee:transform>
----

> And the contents of the `.properties` file look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The contents of the `.properties` file:
```

----
message=I love $
----

> After property replacements take place, the application would look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After property replacements take place, the application looks like this:
```

[source, xml]
----
<ee:transform>
  <ee:message>
    <ee:set-payload>
      <![CDATA[
        %dw 2.0
        output application/json
        ---
        {
          "message": "I love $",
        }
      ]]>
    </ee:set-payload>
  </ee:message>
</ee:transform>
----

> This is an invalid Dataweave script because the dollar sign has a special meaning and needs to be escaped. See xref:dataweave::dataweave-types.adoc#escape-chars-string[Dataweave - Escaping Special Characters].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output is an invalid DataWeave script because the dollar sign ($) has a special meaning and needs to be escaped. See xref:dataweave::dataweave-types.adoc#escape-chars-string[Dataweave - Escaping Special Characters].
```
